docs/plugins/connector/ssh.md, before:

# Connector plugin: `ssh`

The `ssh` connector plugin allows remote actions to be executed on nodes having an SSH access.
It supports different ways to retrieve the SSH connection details, from configuration, metadata and environment variables.

## Config DSL extension

### `gateway`

Declare a new SSH gateway, with 2 parameters: its name (as a Symbol) and its SSH configuration (as a String).
This is used directly in any SSH configuration file used to connect to nodes.
Any node can then reference this gateway by using the `gateway` metadata.

The gateway definition is an ERB template can use the following variables:
* `@user` (String): The SSH user name
* `@ssh_exec` (String): Path to the SSH executable to be used. Always use this variable instead of `ssh` (for example in proxy commands) as the connector might use a different ssh executable to encapsulate the configuration without polluting the system ssh.

Examples:
```ruby
gateway :prod_gw, <<~EOS
Host prod.gateway.com
  User gateway_<%= @user %>
  ProxyCommand <%= @ssh_exec %> -q -W %h:%p all.gateway.com
EOS
```

### `transform_ssh_connection`

Provide a code block transforing the SSH connection details for nodes.
The code block has the following signature:

*Parameters*:
* **node** (`String`): Node for which we transform the SSH connection
* **connection** (`String` or `nil`): The connection host or IP, or nil if none
* **connection_user** (`String`): The connection user
* **gateway** (`String` or `nil`): The gateway name, or nil if none
* **gateway_user** (`String` or `nil`): The gateway user, or nil if none
*Result*:
* `String`: The transformed connection host or IP, or nil if none
* `String`: The transformed connection user
* `String` or `nil`: The transformed gateway name, or nil if none
* `String` or `nil`: The transformed gateway user, or nil if none

Examples:
```ruby
# Test nodes have to use the test gateway with hostname in the gateway user name
for_nodes('/tst/') do
  transform_ssh_connection do |node, connection, connection_user, gateway, gateway_user|
    [
      'test_gateway.tst.my_domain.com',
      "#{connection_user}@#{connection}"
    ]
  end
end
```

## Used credentials

| Credential | Usage
| --- | --- |

## Used Metadata

| Metadata | Type | Usage
| --- | --- | --- |
| `description` | `String` | Nodes description added in generated SSH configs |
| `gateway_user` | `String` | Name of the gateway user to be used in the SSH config used by the connector. |
| `gateway` | `String` | Name of the gateway to be used in the SSH config used by the connector. |
| `host_ip` | `String` | The node's IP address to connect to using SSH. If this metadata is not set, then the node is considered as not connectable using the `ssh` connector. |
| `host_keys` | `Array<String>` | The node's host keys used to generate a `known_hosts` file with those to avoid user confirmations when connecting. |
| `hostname` | `String` | Host name used to connect in case no IP address can be found in metadata. |
| `private_ips` | `Array<String>` | IP list to connect in case `host_ip` is not defined in metadata. |
| `ssh_session_exec` | `Boolean` | If set to `false`, then consider that the node does not have any SSH SessionExec capabilities. This will make sure that remote command executions is done using stdin piping on interactive sessions instead of SSH commands execution. |

## Used environment variables

| Variable | Usage
| --- | --- |
| `hpc_interactive` | If set to `false`, then interactive SSH sessions will fail with an error. Useful to not try interactive mode in non-interactive environments like CI/CD. |
| `hpc_ssh_gateway_user` | Default gateway user to be used (can be overriden by the `gateway_user` metadata). |
| `hpc_ssh_gateways_conf` | Gateways configuration name to be used in the SSH configuration. The name should match one of the names declared in the configuration (see the `gateway` config DSL extension). |
| `hpc_ssh_user` | Name of the user to be used in SSH connections. |
| `USER` | Name of the user to be used in SSH connections (only used if the env variable `hpc_ssh_user` is not set). |

## External tools dependencies

* `cat`: Used to pipe commands on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.
* `env`: Used to set shebangs in bash scripts.
* `gzip`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections having SessionExec capabilities.
* `scp`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.
* `ssh`: Used to run SSH commands or interactive sessions.
* `sshpass`: Used when the SSH connections is done using a password that needs to be set automatically (using the `passwords` accessor from the connector).
* `tar`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections having SessionExec capabilities.
* `whoami`: Used to get ssh user name when environment variables `hpc_ssh_user` and `USER` are not set.
* `xterm`: Used to initiate an interactive ControlMaster on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.

Commit message:

[Feature(connector_ssh)] [Feature(cmdb_host_keys)] [#78] Way to configure the SSH port being used with the ssh_port metadata

docs/plugins/connector/ssh.md, after:

# Connector plugin: `ssh`

The `ssh` connector plugin allows remote actions to be executed on nodes having an SSH access.
It supports different ways to retrieve the SSH connection details, from configuration, metadata and environment variables.

## Config DSL extension

### `gateway`

Declare a new SSH gateway, with 2 parameters: its name (as a Symbol) and its SSH configuration (as a String).
This is used directly in any SSH configuration file used to connect to nodes.
Any node can then reference this gateway by using the `gateway` metadata.

The gateway definition is an ERB template can use the following variables:
* `@user` (String): The SSH user name
* `@ssh_exec` (String): Path to the SSH executable to be used. Always use this variable instead of `ssh` (for example in proxy commands) as the connector might use a different ssh executable to encapsulate the configuration without polluting the system ssh.

Examples:
```ruby
gateway :prod_gw, <<~EOS
Host prod.gateway.com
  User gateway_<%= @user %>
  ProxyCommand <%= @ssh_exec %> -q -W %h:%p all.gateway.com
EOS
```

### `transform_ssh_connection`

Provide a code block transforing the SSH connection details for nodes.
The code block has the following signature:

*Parameters*:
* **node** (`String`): Node for which we transform the SSH connection
* **connection** (`String` or `nil`): The connection host or IP, or nil if none
* **connection_user** (`String`): The connection user
* **gateway** (`String` or `nil`): The gateway name, or nil if none
* **gateway_user** (`String` or `nil`): The gateway user, or nil if none
*Result*:
* `String`: The transformed connection host or IP, or nil if none
* `String`: The transformed connection user
* `String` or `nil`: The transformed gateway name, or nil if none
* `String` or `nil`: The transformed gateway user, or nil if none

Examples:
```ruby
# Test nodes have to use the test gateway with hostname in the gateway user name
for_nodes('/tst/') do
  transform_ssh_connection do |node, connection, connection_user, gateway, gateway_user|
    [
      'test_gateway.tst.my_domain.com',
      "#{connection_user}@#{connection}"
    ]
  end
end
```

## Used credentials

| Credential | Usage
| --- | --- |

## Used Metadata

| Metadata | Type | Usage
| --- | --- | --- |
| `description` | `String` | Nodes description added in generated SSH configs |
| `gateway_user` | `String` | Name of the gateway user to be used in the SSH config used by the connector. |
| `gateway` | `String` | Name of the gateway to be used in the SSH config used by the connector. |
| `host_ip` | `String` | The node's IP address to connect to using SSH. If this metadata is not set, then the node is considered as not connectable using the `ssh` connector. |
| `host_keys` | `Array<String>` | The node's host keys used to generate a `known_hosts` file with those to avoid user confirmations when connecting. |
| `hostname` | `String` | Host name used to connect in case no IP address can be found in metadata. |
| `private_ips` | `Array<String>` | IP list to connect in case `host_ip` is not defined in metadata. |
| `ssh_port` | `Integer` | Port used to connect to SSH (default: 22). |
| `ssh_session_exec` | `Boolean` | If set to `false`, then consider that the node does not have any SSH SessionExec capabilities. This will make sure that remote command executions is done using stdin piping on interactive sessions instead of SSH commands execution. |

## Used environment variables

| Variable | Usage
| --- | --- |
| `hpc_interactive` | If set to `false`, then interactive SSH sessions will fail with an error. Useful to not try interactive mode in non-interactive environments like CI/CD. |
| `hpc_ssh_gateway_user` | Default gateway user to be used (can be overriden by the `gateway_user` metadata). |
| `hpc_ssh_gateways_conf` | Gateways configuration name to be used in the SSH configuration. The name should match one of the names declared in the configuration (see the `gateway` config DSL extension). |
| `hpc_ssh_user` | Name of the user to be used in SSH connections. |
| `USER` | Name of the user to be used in SSH connections (only used if the env variable `hpc_ssh_user` is not set). |

## External tools dependencies

* `cat`: Used to pipe commands on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.
* `env`: Used to set shebangs in bash scripts.
* `gzip`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections having SessionExec capabilities.
* `scp`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.
* `ssh`: Used to run SSH commands or interactive sessions.
* `sshpass`: Used when the SSH connections is done using a password that needs to be set automatically (using the `passwords` accessor from the connector).
* `tar`: Used to transfer files on SSH connections having SessionExec capabilities.
* `whoami`: Used to get ssh user name when environment variables `hpc_ssh_user` and `USER` are not set.
* `xterm`: Used to initiate an interactive ControlMaster on SSH connections not having SessionExec capabilities.
